# Customer Churn Prediction Plug-and-Play Model

This notebook is part of a diploma thesis conducted with the aim to develop a general methodology for estimating the customer churn probability of a company or an organization, as well as the interpretation and evaluation of the results.

The customer churn rate is one the most important indicators that measures the ability of a company to retain its customer base. Therefore, a method of predicting the probability of churn of a customer is a particularly important tool, which can be used for the renewal of the supplied services or the engraving of targeted promotional actions. Especially in recent years where the volume of available data has increased, the use of machine learning tools has offered new possibilities.

The fundamental idea of the proposed methodology is the automation of the process of generating predictions from data sets relating to customer churn. The proposed framework receives as input a data set and outputs the predictions for the input data, as well as graphs and metrics used for their evaluation. This methodology consists of five steps. The first step contains the preprocessing of the input data for the better training of the prediction models, which is carried out in the second step along with the hyperparameter optimization of the models. In the third stage, the combinations of the developed models are tested, of which the one with the best results is selected as optimal. In the fourth step, multiple prediction thresholds are tested using the best model of the previous step, and the optimal one is selected. Finally, in the fifth stage the resulting complete model is evaluated using the generated graphs and metrics.

For the development of this methodology an extensive experimental procedure was conducted, examining different parameters of the system each time. For these experiments a data set supplied from KKBox Inc. was used, containing the user data of the service provided by the company, an online music streaming service. As part of this [diploma thesis](http://artemis.cslab.ece.ntua.gr:8080/jspui/bitstream/123456789/18461/3/%ce%94%ce%b9%cf%80%ce%bb%cf%89%ce%bc%ce%b1%cf%84%ce%b9%ce%ba%ce%ae_%ce%95%cf%81%ce%b3%ce%b1%cf%83%ce%af%ce%b1_%ce%9c%ce%b7%cf%84%cf%81%cf%8c%cf%80%ce%bf%cf%85%ce%bb%ce%bf%cf%82_%ce%9c%ce%ac%cf%81%ce%b9%ce%bf%cf%82_03117078.pdf), this experimental procedure, as well as the conclusions stemming from this analysis, is described thoroughly.
